README.md, before:

# AI Expense Snap

AI Expense Snap is an intelligent expense tracking application that leverages AI to scan receipts and automatically extract expense information.

## Features

- Image upload functionality with drag-and-drop support
- AI-powered extraction using Google's `gemini-2.5-flash` model (extracts total, currency, category, vendor name, and billing date)
- Manual expense entry form for adding expenses directly
- Expense tracking table to view all expenses with billing dates
- Responsive design that works on all device sizes
- Ability to delete and update expenses from the tracking table
- Dark mode support

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16 (with App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **AI Services**: Google Generative AI (Gemini)
- **UI Components**: Lucide React icons
- **Utilities**: Class Variance Authority, clsx, tailwind-merge

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the repository** (or create the project files as described)

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**:
   Create a `.env.local` file in the project root with:
   ```env
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
   ```

4. **Run the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   
   The application will be available at http://localhost:3000

## How to Use

1. **Upload a receipt image** using the drag-and-drop interface or file selector
2. **Click "Extract Expense Data"** to use AI to extract expense information
3. **View the extracted information** in the expenses table
4. **Add expenses manually** using the form if needed
5. **Edit or delete expenses** directly from the table

## Project Structure

```
ai-expense-snap/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout with metadata
│   ├── page.tsx            # Main application page
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles
├── components/             # Reusable React components
│   ├── UploadReceipt.tsx   # Image upload component
│   ├── ExpenseForm.tsx     # Manual expense entry form
│   └── ExpenseTable.tsx    # Expense tracking table
├── lib/                    # Utility functions
│   ├── geminiService.ts    # Google Gemini API integration
│   └── imageUtils.ts       # Image processing utilities
├── types/                  # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── expense.ts          # Expense-related type definitions
├── public/                 # Static assets
└── package.json            # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## Environment Variables

- `GOOGLE_API_KEY`: Your Google API key for accessing Gemini models (required)

## API Integration

The application uses Google's Gemini AI model to extract expense information from receipt images. The `extractExpenseData` function in `lib/geminiService.ts` handles the API communication and returns structured expense data.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

backend connected with supabase & i will add some new features in the future

README.md, after:

# AI Expense Snap

AI Expense Snap is an intelligent expense tracking application that leverages AI to scan receipts and automatically extract expense information.

## Features

- Image upload functionality with drag-and-drop support
- AI-powered extraction using Google's `gemini-2.5-flash` model (extracts total, currency, category, vendor name, and billing date)
- Manual expense entry form for adding expenses directly
- Expense tracking table to view all expenses with billing dates
- Responsive design that works on all device sizes
- Ability to delete and update expenses from the tracking table
- Dark mode support
- Supabase integration for persistent storage of expenses

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16 (with App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **AI Services**: Google Generative AI (Gemini)
- **UI Components**: Lucide React icons
- **Utilities**: Class Variance Authority, clsx, tailwind-merge

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the repository** (or create the project files as described)

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**:
   Create a `.env.local` file in the project root with:
   ```env
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
   ```

4. **Run the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   
   The application will be available at http://localhost:3000

## How to Use

1. **Upload a receipt image** using the drag-and-drop interface or file selector
2. **Click "Extract Expense Data"** to use AI to extract expense information
3. **View the extracted information** in the expenses table
4. **Add expenses manually** using the form if needed
5. **Edit or delete expenses** directly from the table

## Project Structure

```
ai-expense-snap/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router pages
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout with metadata
│   ├── page.tsx            # Main application page
│   └── globals.css         # Global styles
├── components/             # Reusable React components
│   ├── UploadReceipt.tsx   # Image upload component
│   ├── ExpenseForm.tsx     # Manual expense entry form
│   └── ExpenseTable.tsx    # Expense tracking table
├── lib/                    # Utility functions
│   ├── geminiService.ts    # Google Gemini API integration
│   └── imageUtils.ts       # Image processing utilities
├── types/                  # TypeScript type definitions
│   └── expense.ts          # Expense-related type definitions
├── public/                 # Static assets
└── package.json            # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## Environment Variables

- `GOOGLE_API_KEY`: Your Google API key for accessing Gemini models (required)
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`: Your Supabase project URL (required for database functionality)
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`: Your Supabase anonymous key (required for database functionality)

## API Integration

The application uses Google's Gemini AI model to extract expense information from receipt images. The `extractExpenseData` function in `lib/geminiService.ts` handles the API communication and returns structured expense data.

## Supabase Integration

The application now integrates with Supabase for persistent storage. To set up the database:

1. Create a Supabase project at [supabase.io](https://supabase.io)
2. Set up the expenses table using the schema in `supabase/schema.sql`:
   - Use the SQL file in this repository to create the `expenses` table
   - Or run the SQL commands directly in the Supabase SQL editor
3. Enable Row Level Security (RLS) if needed for your use case
4. Add your Supabase URL and anon key to the environment variables

The `lib/supabaseOperations.ts` file contains all the database operations for interacting with the expenses table.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
